saulius: Hello.
Justin Traglia: Good morning, Sally. Yes.
Justin Traglia: Good morning, everyone. A few more minutes before we get started.
Justin Traglia: And, PK, Barnabas is gonna be a couple minutes late. Would you want to give the DevNet status update, or just wait for him?
pk910: Let's wait for him, I guess.
Justin Traglia: Works for me.
Justin Traglia: Good morning, everyone. Just wait a few more minutes.
Sam | Nimbus: It'll be like…
Justin Traglia: Hey, Sam, you're unmuted.
Sam | Nimbus: Yes.
Sam | Nimbus: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Just one or two more minutes. We're just waiting for, Barnabas to join.
Justin Traglia: He's running a couple minutes late.
Sam | Nimbus: What's up, mom?
Justin Traglia: I don't have the ability to.
Sam | Nimbus: L-O-B-E-D-E.
Justin Traglia: It's…
Sam | Nimbus: And…
Justin Traglia: Fant.
Sam | Nimbus: I've been experiencing some discomfort in my joints.
Sam | Nimbus: So, I'm thinking… People… Say no, no more.
Sam | Nimbus: Brilliant.
Sam | Nimbus: Okay.
Sam | Nimbus: You can join us!
Sam | Nimbus: It's right Every week.
Sam | Nimbus: Okay.
Justin Florentine (Besu): Is Sam your mic.
Justin Traglia: this.
Justin Traglia: Barnabas, are you in the call?
Justin Traglia: We'll start after Sam mutes.
Sam | Nimbus: I just… Okay.
Barnabas: Okay.
Sam | Nimbus: Anyway, this is cool. You got that.
Justin Traglia: Can you mute Sam? I don't know who has access.
Barnabas: Oh, yeah, that'd be true.
Barnabas: That should be good.
Barnabas: Can you guys hear me?
Justin Traglia: Yeah, we can hear you just fine.
Justin Traglia: OK, great. Thank you. Let's get started.
Justin Traglia: All right. Welcome, everyone, to ACDT 86.
Justin Traglia: Our honor business here, would you like to give some definite status updates?
Barnabas: Yeah, sure. So Instagram doesn't have 6, had some issues with, Besu?
Barnabas: I have since… recovered most of the busy nodes, but we still have a few nodes that are
Barnabas: not happy. Teco Ergon is one of them, and old Star Gas is another.
Barnabas: Mainly the issue for Besu was that it was stuck in a weird case, so it required us to resync the databases. Maybe someone from Besu can also give us an update on what they have fixed throughout the weekend.
Karim T. (matkt): Yes, so we did a fix because Prism was sending multiple new payloads without FCU, so I tried to do a fix because this new behavior was adding some latency in Besu.
Karim T. (matkt): But I had some news recently from Prysm, so it seems that they will revert this modification, and we will go back to receive FCU after new payload, so…
Karim T. (matkt): So maybe we'll need to revert the last fix I did.
Karim T. (matkt): And I hope we will go back to something more stable.
Barnabas: Right, but, like, this morning, we had, I think all, all the business notes offline.
Barnabas: Was it all related to the same thing?
Karim T. (matkt): I think yes, but we need to maybe revert and test with… because I have really some doubt about this fix. I think it could be the reason of the issue you had.
Karim T. (matkt): So I think it will be better just to revert this fix and go back to something that I trust more.
Karim T. (matkt): And if we still have issues like that, I think, we will investigate more. But for the moment, I really think it could be,
Karim T. (matkt): Because of the last fix I did, yeah.
Karim T. (matkt): So I will propose a PR to revert, and and we will see.
Barnabas: Okay.
Barnabas: Any other client noticed anything weird happening on the Devnet.
Barnabas: Mario also is asking where you would be able to share some of the issues, if it was speculated or something else.
Mario Vega: Sorry, that was a question for Karim. Just wanted to know if this is a spec-related issue or was something in the syncing of the node?
Mario Vega: Or some other detail.
Karim T. (matkt): It was for me. Sorry.
Karim T. (matkt): No, no, it's… for the moment, I don't think it's a spec-related issue, I think it's more…
Karim T. (matkt): Because we are trying to match the Prysm behavior, and I think we are creating a state inconsistency.
Karim T. (matkt): And it's why we have this issue. I don't think for the moment it's related to the spec, but we'll.
Justin Traglia: I'll just.
potuz: Yeah, I'm a little bit…
potuz: surprised that this caused issues with Bessel, because this is… our behavior has been like that for months, and it's already released on mainnet, so… and even the fix that I pushed
potuz: It's only for glass, and it's not…
potuz: And it's not for Fulu. So if this is affecting Besu even on mainnet, I'll have to also change our Fulu behavior.
Karim T. (matkt): Yeah, we need to check, but I don't think we saw that before. I think we only saw that on the recent DevNets.
potuz: Yeah, but it's surprising. I mean, this is several months ago. I did move to sending FCU on the background, and then I even removed it completely from init-sync, and it was several months ago.
Karim T. (matkt): Yeah, honestly, I don't know, no, because we are… Testing a lot numbers.
Karim T. (matkt): Prism, I don't know if we did some tests recently.
Karim T. (matkt): Yeah. But yeah, we can also check on my net to see if we have the same issue, but yeah. I didn't notice that.
Ameziane Hamlat: Karim, maybe just to add something. So this is related to a new syncing node. So if the node is already in sync.
Ameziane Hamlat: We shouldn't see the issue, so it is…
potuz: Not really. So any node that starts, it doesn't matter if it's on a checkpoint sync, we're going to hit this path of sending batches.
Ameziane Hamlat: So, okay, let's say I have been running a node, right? And I upgrade my, let's say my best version, I restart.
Ameziane Hamlat: So we have, like, let's say, maybe 5, 10, whatever notes to recover, then once I recover.
Ameziane Hamlat: I should receive for each new payload an FCU, right?
Ameziane Hamlat: Like, when the node is in sync.
potuz: Yeah, but if the CL client has been running continuously, then that's what's gonna happen. But if the CL client is restarted again, so if the CL client is restarted, then you're gonna hit this path where we send you a batch without a single FCU.
Karim T. (matkt): It depends also regarding the size of the batch, so if it's only a batch of 2-3 blocks, I don't think you will see any issue.
potuz: It should be at least 64.
Karim T. (matkt): 64, yeah.
Ameziane Hamlat: Yeah, we need to double check, yeah. We need to double check when that happens and if there is anything to fix on mainnet as well.
Justin Traglia: Any other updates for.
Justin Traglia: Definitely 6.
Justin Traglia: Have there been.
Barnabas: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Sorry, Lodestar, Death Star paintings.
Barnabas: Yeah, it's been… so, Lodestar HX1 is still running the Death Star, that's the image.
Justin Traglia: Awesome.
Justin Traglia: And I see that those are missed, like orphaned, which is the expected behavior, correct?
Barnabas: Yeah, that's correct. And we also know that some clients didn't fully implement fork choice yet, and they would have some issues building on top of these blocks. I think Nimbus is currently still having some issues regarding these.
Justin Traglia: Got it.
Justin Traglia: Okay, sorry, what were you gonna say before? I got you all.
Barnabas: Yeah. So that that was my next point that the new, the numbers for choice issues. I think they're working on it now.
Barnabas: Maybe someone from the numbers team can give us an update.
Dustin: Sure. Yeah. We're working on it. We we know the issue. We know the cause. We know, broadly speaking, the fix. I say we. I
Dustin: I'm not going to be writing the PR for this, so I can't promise any specific Timeline, but
Dustin: I guess… Caleb is… is… Like we will, and
Dustin: I don't know if he's in this Anyway… It's it's tractable.
Barnabas: And we still have a bunch of nodes that are self-building only.
Barnabas: So I can… I can see a few now. It's… it's mainly Nimbus pairs.
Barnabas: That are self-proposing blocks, and they're not using the remote builder, so it would be nice to
Barnabas: Nice to get a chain where we use only the builders.
Barnabas: Here and there.
Dustin: So, one comment about that, and I don't… is, Nimbus is, currently using the same, like, 10-odd percent,
Dustin: Hmm. Maybe it's higher, but but 10 odd percent sort of
Dustin: Local block, value boost.
Dustin: that we do for the builder API.
Dustin: And so… I don't know what the how valuable the external builder blocks are.
Dustin: here, but, right, that's gonna mask things potentially.
Barnabas: So it's… 0.15E for external, and…
Barnabas: Close to zero ETH for local.
Dustin: Okay.
Dustin: Sure. So, anyway, a solvable problem. If that is the issue, then that could be resolved, clearly, but yeah, we will…
Dustin: look at that. The odd thing is that some of the Nimbus nodes definitely do, have… use external block building.
Dustin: Sometimes. Like, it's not completely absent, so…
Dustin: I I can't speak to the exact details of why or why not right now, but
Dustin: It's there's some nuance here.
Justin Traglia: Okay, yeah, something to look into.
Justin Traglia: What do you mean, Barnabas, that we seem to be flip-flopping a bit, like between self-built and…
Barnabas: Yeah, yeah, so, like, for example, Nimbus Ref 1,
Barnabas: It has managed to build a few blocks.
Barnabas: Like three hours ago, it managed to build three different blocks, but self-building is like pretty much every other.
Barnabas: block is submitted.
Barnabas: So, like, every hour, it seems to be able to do one or two.
Barnabas: Builder, better blocks.
Barnabas: So that's why it's a bit, That's why it's a bit.
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Justin Traglia: I'll stick into this.
Justin Traglia: Anything else for DevNow 6?
Barnabas: We now have every single client on board, so that's very good news.
Justin Traglia: Awesome.
Justin Traglia: Okay, maybe good to, now's a good time to discuss plans for DevNet 7. Are we still planning to launch that this week if the spec updates come out and clients are updated?
Barnabas: Yeah, I would target Wednesday.
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Barnabas: Not sure how reasonable that is. That's partially because of personal reasons as well. I will be off for two and a half weeks after that.
Barnabas: So, that's why I would push forward to Wednesday. In case that's not doable, maybe we can take a look at launching on Thursday.
Barnabas: Or,
potuz: The breaking changes that we need to push.
Barnabas: I'.
Justin Traglia: I mean… That's the biggest one, yeah.
Justin Traglia: Stable containers?
potuz: Anything else.
Toni Wahrstätter: There are a few.
Toni Wahrstätter: There is one thing on the EL with the stipend. I think we will get to that.
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I think there's, like, on the CL, I think there's, like, 5 breaking changes, but they're fairly simple compared to 7, 6, 8, 8
Justin Traglia: Spencer?
spencer: I guess I'd ask, do we want this DevNet to kind of be the final…
spencer: Devnet, because I think for the EL, there's changes for 2780,
spencer: 8037, I think, block access lists, and then also the 8282 with the… And the bike codes.
Justin Traglia: I would like for this to be the last of them. What do others think?
Barnabas: Yeah, Spotify is for sure.
Barnabas: I would do a mild spec freeze after we launch this.
Maria Silva: Just a quick note there, I think we still might need to make changes to the Prices for…
Maria Silva: 8038, 20, and 2780, so… I mean…
Maria Silva: As I explained in the last ACDE, the numbers are, I would say, stable. But there could be something we find during testing that points that the numbers need to change.
Maria Silva: But, again, those should be very small, like, I… just constant changes, not really spec… like, not…
Maria Silva: Design… big design changes.
Barnabas: I think single parameter changes should be fine.
Barnabas: But like adding a new method to AD37 or changing the whole structure of AD37.
Maria Silva: No, no, no, it would be mostly. Yeah, it would be mostly just changing parameters like the gas cost for account. Right? Or something like that needs to be higher for some reason, so that that would be the change type of change. I mean.
Barnabas: I think that's fine to… Definitely for those kind of changes.
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if there were a consensus layer specification issue as well. Might require… date.
Gary Rong: Yeah, and also I have a question for mostly, like, Spencer and Mario. So, we found that, the current spell test is diverse from the
Gary Rong: EIP2780, because, you know, SPED tests, they use, transaction-based calls.
Gary Rong: as the input for the floor, floor gas calculation. But it's the EIP… but it's the EIP say we should use the sum of… of the regular gas, primitive as the input.
Gary Rong: So, I can share the link, and I guess it's, like, only the issue of the spare test, and it would be nice to…
Gary Rong: To fix it for the devnet 7.
spencer: Yeah, no, thanks, thanks for flagging that. I think… I think it is an issue on our end, so we can, we can prioritize that for…
spencer: For DevNet 7. I think I was planning to take a look after the call.
Justin Traglia: Cool. Okay.
Justin Traglia: Barnabas, anything else you'd like to mention about Glamsterdam devnet 7?
Barnabas: Well, we definitely gonna need the offer 12 release on the sales side. And
Barnabas: Use backtest on the ER side for the changes that we agree on today.
Justin Traglia: Yep.
Justin Traglia: OK, I guess that's a good time to talk about those. On the CL side, we do intend to make a release today or tomorrow as soon as we merge all of the PRs and Performa.
Justin Traglia: some tests.
Justin Traglia: hopefully running the reference test on a client beforehand.
Justin Traglia: Oh.
Justin Traglia: Mario or Spencer, are you expecting to make a release today or tomorrow?
Mario Vega: Yeah, I think so. The only remaining questions, I have two open.
Mario Vega: EAP changes that I was hoping we can discuss today. I think they're in the EL breakout agenda, so we can discuss them there. So once those are finalized, we can start implementing the changes. And I don't think we have to write new tests, but just make these spec changes and we should be able to release.
Mario Vega: I think by the latest on Wednesday, I would say, yeah.
Justin Traglia: Great.
Justin Traglia: Yeah, same. Pretty much the same timeline for us as well. Hopefully today or tomorrow if something goes wrong Wednesday.
Justin Traglia: Any questions or concerns about this back before the breakout calls?
Justin Traglia: Or any other topics we'd like to discuss.
Justin Traglia: Okay. Barnabas, could you help us by creating the breakout?
Justin Traglia: Groups.
Barnabas: Yes, sir.
Justin Traglia: Alright, while he does that…
Justin Traglia: Reminder that the SSZ Engine API breakout call will be this Friday. Please attend if you can.
Barnabas: It should be open.
Justin Traglia: Thank you, Barnabas.
Justin Traglia: I'll be in the CL breakout call by everyone else. Talk to you guys next week.
Barnabas: Pooja, do you know how we could do the recording for these breakout channels?
Pooja Ranjan: We can definitely make use of OBS. Do you want to?
Pooja Ranjan: Do it right now.
Barnabas: Yeah, so it would be nice to have the recording of these as well in the, in forecast.
Pooja Ranjan: Mmm.
Pooja Ranjan: Yeah, same.
Justin Traglia: for the CL. I'll join the CL and try to figure it out.
Pooja Ranjan: Yeah, ma'.
Justin Traglia: Never.
Pooja Ranjan: I'm I… I'm not sure. I think, Mark Wolovin is there in the,
Pooja Ranjan: He may still have access to record it. Let me quickly coordinate with him and get back on it.
Barnabas: Okay, thank you. Yeah, we're gonna… we're gonna… one of us is gonna record the CI session, and then,
Barnabas: If Mark can record the session, then that should be good.
Pooja Ranjan: Yep, let me ask him. Cool.
Barnabas: Does anyone have issues joining into a breakout room? Please let me know.
Pooja Ranjan: Barnabas, if you could maybe guide me there. You, you want me to record the EL1 or CL1?
Barnabas: The EL one, please.
Pooja Ranjan: Okay, I'm a good linchman.